---
title: "Duwende"
excerpt: These days with our smartphones, cctv, cameras and other means to capture the moment it’s really hard to say something without any proof from these gadgets. It’s absurd to convince you to believe things that I saw if I can’t show any proof. I know what I saw whether you believe me or not, it’s all up to you.
---


These days with our smartphones, cctv, cameras and other means to capture the moment it’s really hard to say something without any proof from these gadgets. It’s absurd to convince you to believe things that I saw if I can’t show any proof. I know what I saw whether you believe me or not, it’s all up to you.
 
This happened when I was in grade school. During the time when summertime was almost over and the rainy season kicks in. The punishing heat of summer gone and you’ll feel the relief from occasional rains.
 
Me with my two younger brother played in our front yard from around 3:00pm till sunset. The front yard like any typical suburb place was filled with fruit bearing trees like avocado, mangoes and chico. Day was almost over, and night slowly creeps in. We decided to play hide and seek.
 
Me and my brothers were playing in our front yard. I was chosen (designated as being "it") to find them. I have checked all the trees and still can see from distance since the dusk still provides light from the setting sun.
 
Behind the porch I’ve heard one of them giggling. I slowly came close about arm’s reach, but he doesn’t move crouching giggling and still hiding. When I about to shout out “boom” he looked towards me. 
 
To my surprise he just looked like my brother with same clothes and same facial feature and hair.
The only difference was his eyes and ears was oversized. The eyes was too big that it reached his cheekbone and it blinked fast like he’s surprised that I found him. The ears was pointed. I assumed he was as tall as my brother.
 
I felt the back of my hair raised. I was so scared that I ran so fast that I didn't felt my feet touching the ground. As soon as I get home, I saw my two siblings getting ready for dinner. When I told my mother what happened, she just dismissed it as my wild imagination.
 
Years passed and still remember vividly what happened that day. I even used that experience as a bedtime story for my kid to behave during bedtime.
 
Few months ago my brother paid me a visit. We downed couple of beer and out of nowhere he just told me about his version of the story that happened years ago. This time it assumed the feature of his playmate, one of our neighbors kid. When I asked him that why he hadn’t told me before? He just said that we will just dismissed his story as nonsense. So he just kept quiet of the experience but according to him he remember that experience from time to time.
 
Though that creature whatever that was didn’t hurt anyone, there might be some logical or scientific explanation about it. Is it a duende? Duende is goblin like creature from myths of the old world. Whatever that is I can’t explain since I’m no expert about it.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
